If you don't change what you're doing and how you do it, nothing else will change.
Your biggest enemy is you. My whole book is about you battling yourself.
People don't understand as you against you. The only person that gets in your way is you.
Nobody else is you.
Here's the big challenge of life. You can have more than you've got because you can become more than you are.
That's the challenge.
And of course the other side of the coin reads, unless you change how you are, you'll always have what you got.
Most people don't want it that badly.
That's why they always ask the question, how do you get to where you are?
You know how to do it. You know exactly how to be you or how to be me.
You don't want to do it.
So I can't make you do it in order to have the time or energy to force you into that place that I know you have to be to do it.
There's no luck in this game. It may be a little bit of luck.
But the luck happens after you bust your ass and you put yourself in that lucky situation.
Luck doesn't happen. You put yourself in that situation where luck might happen.
Would I be able to do it? Would I? You don't know.
Until you say, yeah, you know what? I'm going to take action. Nothing changes if nothing changes, man.
And I'm not preaching at you. I just want to remind you.
Because I've spent a lot of time in my life sitting around wanting things to change.
And not being able to make them change and not thinking I could.
And I wish somebody had told me that earlier sometimes.
That in order for something to change, there needs to be change.
It's you against you. You against you.
And if you misunderstand that, give a real problem.
I can understand you misunderstand me running on the street, shirt off.
I can get it. I get it.
If you misunderstand the same right now today, the problem is you.
And you don't want to fix it.
Here's how to get older without getting better.
Keep relearning the same lesson.
If you keep making the same mistake over and over, the mistake isn't the problem. You are.
There was no passion, no drive, no nothing.
But I had this fire that I'm going to be somebody.
And it has to be there because on all those bad days, on all those days you don't want to do.
You have to be your own motivator, your own coach, your own, your own trainer, your own everything.
And what that means is you may have failed miserably yesterday, but you come to work.
Like, man, you just lost everything. How the hell are you just fucking damn motivated?
Because this is what it takes.
It's not about the shoes.
It's about knowing where you're going.
Not forgetting where you started.
It's about having the courage to fail.
Not breaking when you're broken.
Lazyness is something that has to do with you. You're not connected to something deep enough.
You don't feel the necessity.
You don't feel the devil at your heels.
You don't feel the fact that you could very well die tomorrow that will impel you to get something done.
There's no necessity behind it.
And the human animal the way we were created is when we feel pressure, we feel the necessity to get things done.
We can move mountains.
But when that pressure, like almost like a barometric pressure releases, and we don't feel the need to get something done,
we can become incredibly lazy because there's no necessity.
So you have to create necessity in your life. You have to create the need to get things done.
Why do that much? Why go that far?
Why try to become everything?
That's a good question, why?
And you're the only one personally that can answer that question for yourself.
One of the big thrusts for success is to come up with a strong enough why.
If the why is powerful, the how is easy.
If the vision isn't clear, the old prophet said, without a vision we die, without a vision we perish, without a dream we're nothing.
Most people, the bottom 80% are lazy.
They're looking for an easy way.
They're looking for a shortcut to be successful.
There aren't any.
But if you do something repeatedly over and over, you develop a habit.
So most people are in the habit of looking for easy ways to get the things they want.
It's almost like you have to have the ability to go to the deep end no matter whether or not you'll ever go there.
Right. Yes.
And some people are like, well, I'm never going to go to the deep end.
But you should be able to.
Yes.
What are you going to give up?
What are you going to sacrifice?
What are you willing to forgo?
If you're struggling, if you're frustrated with yourself, if you're at that point where you're so sick of yourself and your excuses.
I've been there, Stephen's been there.
This is a normal part of the human experience.
And at some point, either the pain is going to get big enough.
Or you're going to bump into somebody's story somewhere on this planet who has been in the position that you're in right now.
Facing the stuff that you're facing right now.
And there is something about their story at this exact moment in time that will ignite something in you that is missing.
And what is missing in you right now is hope.
Here's to the crazy ones.
The misfits.
The rebels.
The troublemakers.
The round pegs in the square holes.
The ones who see things differently.
They're not fond of rules and they have no respect for the status quo.
You can quote them, disagree with them, glorify or vilify them.
About the only thing you can't do is ignore them.
Because they change things, they push the human race forward.
While some may see them as the crazy ones, we see genius.
Because the people who are crazy enough to think they can change the world are the ones who do.
Playing out the fear.
Layla says this and I love it, but that fear is a mile wide and an inch deep.
And so it looks like this ocean that you're going to step into and drown.
But as soon as you step into it, you realize it was not that deep at all and you can keep walking through it.
And I just love that visual because a lot of times when it's like we have this anxiety around this big decision we have to make.
If you actually take the step and realize that it's not death, you're not going to drown immediately.
There's plenty of other steps you can take from there even if you get a little wet.
You have to be open minded to the possibilities that I can do this.
Once you shut your mind down to the possibility that it can be a cheese, there's no way it can happen.
Is there advice you can give to young kids that are living through a shitty situation of any sort, a tough life?
Try to find a thing that you really enjoy. Try to find a thing that you're passionate about.
Everybody thinks they're a loser. Every young person thinks they're a loser.
At least a young person in the situation I was at.
I didn't know I wasn't a loser until I started winning, until I started doing martial arts.
Martial arts taught me that I could get better at stuff, that I wasn't really a loser.
I want to maximize what I can. I want to be the best that I can be.
I want to do things well and I don't want to leave stuff on the table,
but I don't want to be chasing the end goal so much that I never actually enjoyed the process of getting there
because ultimately that's really all that matters.
You're going to look back at any destination and realize that it was a 99.9% journey
and only one day of celebrating achieving the thing.
You're lazy. You know exactly what to do. Exactly what to do.
Because even me, in my state of, I can't read and write, I know exactly what to do.
It just sucks doing it.
Hey Theo, this is Greg from Indiana. I actually just wanted to call and tell you,
so I was at work the other day and I've just been kind of in this like what, at work.
It's not a bad job, but I just really want to get out of it.
I saw it catching up on some of your podcasts and you said something like resonated with me.
You know, you said nothing changes if nothing changes.
I thought about it and I went home and I applied for a job I'm probably not qualified for,
but I was like, I have to take a shot.
And the next day I get a call from them at the interview.
It goes well. She said she's going to set me up with an in-person interview.
Never even had it. They emailed me a few days later and I got the job.
So now I'm going to be doing a job that I think I will appreciate more and enjoy more
and I'll be making double the money that I'm making now.
Bro, that's awesome, man. That's really great.
Congratulations for trying something new.
Yeah, it's crazy to sometimes think like, what can happen if we decide that?
I'm going to see what happens when I decide that I am qualified.
What happens when I decide for myself that I'm going to do something different?
I've made huge, huge, huge developments while I was staying up until four in the morning,
five in the morning running a nightlife business.
You can make huge developments in your personal growth journey while you're doing a nine to five.
You have this moment where you go, well, what if?
What if this is the time?
