and purpose that God predestined inside of you.
I don't know what your future is, but if you are willing to take the heart away, the more
complicated one, the one with more failures at first than successes, the one that has
ultimately proven to have more meaning, more victory, more glory than you will not regret
it.
Now, this is your time.
The younger generation quits, not everybody.
So I gotta put it, people get the butthurt.
So not everybody.
Most of this generation quits the second they get talked to.
You did this wrong, you did this wrong, or they get yelled at.
It's so easy to be great nowadays, because everybody else's, most people are weak.
This is a softened generation.
So if you have any mental toughness, any ability, if you have any fraction of self-discipline,
the ability to not want to do it, but still do it.
People have a hard thing to understand.
I hate to run.
It makes me so crazy.
It doesn't need more.
People go, why do you run if you hate it?
What are you talking about?
I don't want to take showers and eat either.
I hate that too.
That's a life, man.
It wasn't until I changed that mentality that I became somebody.
I hated going to school.
So guess what?
I was dumb as shit.
That's what, one plus one is two.
But if you can get through to doing things that you hate to do on the other side is greatness.
That's what people understand.
By me running, I am callous in my mind.
I'm not training for a race.
I'm training for life.
I'm training for the time when I get that two o'clock in the morning call that my mom
is dead or something happens tragic in life.
I don't fall apart.
I'm training my mind and my body and my spirit so it's all one so I can handle what life
is going to throw at me because the life I've lived, it throws a whole bunch at you.
And if you're not physically, immensely prepared for that, you're just going to crumble.
And you're good for nobody.
Going back to who I am, how I became who I am today.
And it comes back from hard work.
It comes back from having that very minimalistic mindset.
The first step taken towards the domination of chaos and its transformation into order
is a cardinal and difficult step.
And so you can make it small and that's fine.
It'll still work.
So I might say, well, just move the vacuum cleaner inside your room.
And then I would also say to someone in that situation, don't do more than that.
If the agreement that you've made with me and with yourself is that that's enough,
abide by the contract that you've written with yourself and allow yourself to be grateful
for the fact that you had the courage to take even a single step forward.
And don't push your bloody luck because maybe you'll have a brief fit and vacuum the whole
rug and then you'll be so annoyed at how you destabilized your entire life that you'll
redouble your attempts to make a mess and the place will be more like hell than ever
for two months.
You have to start as low as you are useless.
And that's low.
So once you take the first step, the probability that you'll take a slightly larger second
step increases and that increases nonlinearly.
But as I was there for so long, I got a really good chance to sit back because now the cold
water is just water now.
It's no longer cold anymore.
Your mind starts to change.
They say getting the water, most people think about it.
For you, it became my life.
So I started learning that if you start to change your mindset versus it being like,
oh my God, this sucks.
I became a professional butt student.
So I wasn't going to leave until I graduated.
So I started realizing if this is my home, this is what I am.
I had to always reset the bar.
I had to reset my new norm.
There always had to be a new norm.
So one thing we don't do is we don't have a new norm.
My new norm is you get up every fucking morning at four o'clock and you suffer.
This is your new norm.
That became my new fucking life.
Most people want to get out of it.
I said, no, mother fucker, this is your new life.
This is who you are.
Your new norm is you wake up and you suffer.
And I started realizing if that's my mentality, this shit ain't hard anymore.
You're fucking new norm.
You wake up, you're getting the fucking cold water.
You're going to be here until the shit's fucking done.
Whenever they say you're out, you get out.
So my new norm, so I do that now today, my new norm now is if I'm doing a towards a mile
run, your new norm now, man, you're fucking doing 200 fucking miles.
Whatever you do, you've got to be a little bit gone to it.
You're not all there.
You've got to be almost insane to your craft.
Not a lot of people can understand that.
That's why I don't know about nothing else.
I do not pay attention to nothing else.
There was games of football on yesterday.
There was rugby, there was this, there was that.
And like normal society is like, let's talk about this and let's engage in this.
And I just don't, I can't do it.
I just don't, people are talking to me and in my head I'm counting something.
I'm counting up a number or I'm knee deep in a sequence on the mat or on the feet.
That's my life.
Sequences and numbers, nothing else.
I cannot pay attention to nothing else.
You love this game.
I mean, love it with your whole heart.
Because if you don't, let's not even bother.
Let's not open that door.
They're just going to slam it right in our face.
I love this game.
I live this game.
And there's a thousand other guys waiting in the wings who are obsessed with this game.
Obsession is going to be talent every time.
You got all the talent in the world, but are you obsessed?
Is it all you ever think about?
Let's face it.
It's you against you out there.
When you walk on that court, you have to think I am the best guy out there.
And my personal question to you is why not you?
Your biggest enemy is you.
My whole book is about you battling yourself.
People don't understand as you against you.
The only person that gets in your way is you.
Nobody else is you.
You cannot change your life unless you change something.
If you always do what you always did, you'll always get what you always got.
It's more socially acceptable to be our own biggest critic than it is to be our own biggest
cheerleader.
Listen to the pain.
It's both history teacher and fortune teller.
Pain teaches us who we are.
Sometimes it's so bad we feel like we're dying.
But we can't really live till we die to live in the camp.
You've got the brains.
You can make decisions.
You can study the plan.
You can change your life.
You can grow immensely in the next few years.
You can make your dreams come true.
You can build a financial wall around your family.
Nothing can get through.
You can become healthy.
You can become powerful.
Why not you?
The fear is never reaching your potential.
That's it.
You're always falling short, always quitting before you're done, always procrastinating,
always not doing the right thing.
And then one day you're an old man.
Yep.
And you look back, oh God, it could have been great.
Yep.
It could have been great.
Take yourself out your comfort zone.
Do not live in your bubble.
If you stay in your comfort zone, that's where you will fail.
The unfulfilled potential is the story of most people's lives.
It is.
It is.
And it could have been the story of mine.
And I tell a lot of people, people go, what's your biggest fear in life?
And my biggest fear honestly was, let's say this, let's say, I don't care if you believe
in God or not.
I don't care.
So this is a play game with me.
Let's say you're God.
And we have a big long line of people.
And I made the heaven.
75 years old, I'm 300 pounds.
I made the heaven.
I worked for Ecolab, my entire life, spraying for cockroaches.
That's what I did.
But I'm dead.
I'm in heaven now.
And you are at your, you're judging us all now.
So we're in line.
We're all sitting there in line.
You have Adam Brown.
He has a big board up and you're talking to Adam Brown about his life.
And you rip it down.
I'm next in line.
David Goggins.
I see my name.
I see all this.
And God goes, hey, you say, read this, man.
Now I'm reading this list and I'm seeing 182 pounds.
David Seale, Ranger School, motivational speaker, changing lives.
Okay, man, pull up record, all this.
And I'm like, that's not me, man.
And God looks at me and says, that's who you were supposed to be.
You've got to be a little bit gone to it.
You're not all there.
You've got to be almost insane to your craft.
Not a lot of people can understand that.
It's that when it feels scary to jump, he is.
