nothing, rock, bottom.
I lived alone for so many years in this misery.
I can take myself to such a level of real,
real passion and purpose.
I've trained 99% of my life alone.
I did all of the work alone.
I never ran from anything
because I never had nobody to go to.
I've always had to, where I'm going?
Home to get me?
Ain't nobody there.
You know what I'm saying?
So it's, I've always been in a situation
where I'm forced to deal with it myself.
You always have to be the person
who roots for you before anybody else does.
And it's usually a single clap in the auditorium
for a very long period of time.
It is a slow clap that's just you rooting for you.
The path of the exceptional person is one of an exception,
which means that you are not with other people.
The superpower of learning to be alone and enjoying it.
These times where you just think about things,
just be alone and think about things
are so rare these days.
During those rare times is when you really get
to understand what you actually believe or don't believe.
It's a lonely journey, you're isolated.
Those who used to keep pace with you will fall off.
They'll see where their world ends.
And yours begins, your ability to suffer, endure.
Our work must be greater.
You must be willing to extend yourself to the limit
with no guarantee of success.
Every day you must ask yourself, did I do enough?
There's a moment when every boy realizes
no one's coming to save him.
And that's when he becomes a man.
And some boys never get there and stay children forever.
No one's effing coming to save you.
No one.
No one's coming to push you.
No one's coming to tell you to turn the TV off.
No one's coming to tell you to get out the door and exercise.
Nobody's coming to write the business plan for you.
It's up to you.
Unless you understand that you've got to push yourself,
you're not gonna make your dreams come true.
Largely, everyone needs to go through
the same challenges that you're going through.
Every single difficult thing that you do
is kind of like a massive wall that you need to get over.
And you go, well, I'm so glad that I've got over that wall.
And think about how many other people
are going to fall with that wall.
What I've learned is to always keep going.
Always.
And I've come to find out is that,
no matter what happens, the storm eventually ends.
When the storm does end, you wanna make sure that you're ready.
And so I've really learned to put one foot in front of the
other, get better and different.
It's eventually that storm passes.
If you don't show up, guys, you know the outcome.
You'll never get the job, never get the part,
never get the girl.
If you don't show up, if you show up,
you put yourself in a situation to create those opportunities.
And when you show up, how hard do you go?
That's the faster the opportunity will come to life for you.
It's up to you guys.
Small, down payment that you're willing to pay every day
to the large investment of a greater life.
You only got one life, guys.
If you work it right, you only need one.
I told myself I couldn't quit.
I told myself this was gonna happen.
This is destiny.
Whatever is really burning in your heart,
you gotta really believe in yourself.
Even when nobody else won't.
You gotta believe in yourself and say I'm not stopping.
And I told myself I'd die before I stopped.
When you feel like giving up, don't.
When you thinking about giving up, don't.
When it look like you ain't gonna make it, keep going.
When they tell you you can't, come on, man, who are they?
You got to be relentless.
I gotta thank the man I'm job, G-O-D,
cause I'm nothing without him.
Last but not least, I wanna thank me.
I wanna thank me for believing in me.
I wanna thank me for doing all this hard work.
I wanna thank me for having no days off.
I wanna thank me for never quitting.
I'm Snoop Dogg, you a bad boy.
Do you be yourself and make sure that you love being yourself.
And it's gonna be roadblocks, it's gonna be tribulations.
But always remember, this is a life experience.
Accept the experience, appreciate the experience.
Find your journey, respect your journey and love it.
You're going to realize it one day.
That happiness was never about your job or your degree
or being in a relationship.
It was never about being like the others.
That happiness was always about the discovery,
the hope, the listening to your heart,
and following it wherever it chose to go.
Happiness was always about being kinder to yourself.
It was always about embracing the person you were becoming.
One day you will understand
that happiness was always about learning how to live with yourself.
That your happiness was never in the hands of others.
It was always about you.
It was always about you.
Just shut up and let me enjoy this pain.
I don't want anything to numb it.
I don't want anything right now.
Those times when you get up early and you work hard,
those times when you stay up late and you work hard,
those times when you don't feel like working,
you're too tired, you don't want to push yourself,
but you do it anyway, that is actually the dream.
When they saw me in the gym in the pumping iron days,
they said, why is it that you're working out so hard?
Five hours a day, six hours a day,
and you have always a smile on your face.
The others are working out just as hard as you do,
and they look sour in the face.
And they told people all the time,
I said, because to me, I am shooting for a goal.
In front of me is the Mr. Universe title.
So every rep that I do gets me closer to accomplishing
that goal, to make this goal,
this vision turn into reality.
Every single set that I do, every repetition,
every weight that I lift will get me a step closer
to turn this goal into reality.
So I couldn't wait to do another 500 pound squat.
I couldn't wait to do another 500 pound bench press.
I couldn't wait to do another 2,000 reps of sit-ups.
I couldn't wait for the next exercise.
But where do you go to?
You wake up on a morning, it's cold, it's wet, it's dark,
you've got no cartilage in your knee,
you've got shitty shorts, whatever it is
that's the issue today.
I know every motherfucker ain't gonna do what I'm gonna do.
I know there's a whole bunch of people with that right there.
That fires me up.
That makes me fucking happy what you just said.
That brings joy to my life right there.
Why?
Because I know there's so many people
that have the ability and just refuse to get off that couch.
Refuse to study a few more hours,
refuse to go deeper, to go further.
And that's where I gain the advantage.
It's so easy to be great nowadays, my friend,
because most people are weak.
I get happier about the harder it is
because I know that no one else will follow.
It's a selection effect.
And I think if you can shift from this as hard
to no one else will be able to do this,
then it flips from being this thing that you're like,
oh, poor me, to oh, poor everyone else
who's gonna have to fucking try.
Be the guy who embraces the ugly, the miserable.
Be the guy who embraces hard work, the grind.
Don't be afraid of being hurt.
Don't be afraid of sacrificing some blood.
There was probably a hundred days
where I didn't wanna do anything.
I wanted to stay in the pool or stay in my bed
and not get out.
But those were the days where you have to.
You have to get up and do something
because I think that's really what separates
the good from the great.
The greats do things when they don't always want to do them.
Rich people don't sleep eight hours a day.
That's a third of your life.
I had 130 days in game,
just sitting looking at a screen
playing one character in one game.
If you think ordinary is cool, ain't no problem.
But if you are sitting in this room
and you have extraordinary aspirations,
then you're gonna have to do extra.
Imagine if I could put this kind of focus
into something in real life
and just make that scene a little bit like a video game.
Imagine the results I could get then.
You have to decide if you are willing to do the things
to put you in that category.
You know, when you're kind of addicted to it,
you can play at any time.
You cannot be asleep eight hours a day.
You can't live in LA and wake up at 8 o'clock in the morning.
It's 11 o'clock on the East Coast.
The stock market been open two hours.
They already making decisions about your life
and your ass was asleep.
And again, so I was just like,
imagine if I could feel like that,
but in real life, turn life into a video game.
The Bible says he who loves to sleep
and the folding of hands,
poverty will set upon you like a thief in the night.
I have never met anybody
who became incredibly successful
in any area of their life
until they had suffered and sweated and sacrificed
and kept their focus and fought through tears and trials and death.
And if you have a dream and you commit to it,
it will come to pass.
A blade, a blade does not become strong.
It does not become tempered until it spins through the fire.
Until it spins through the fire.
Nobody cares, you know?
At the end of the day, nobody cares.
What we're going through, how your body feels, nobody cares.
We gotta, we gotta do our job.
