that is exactly when you jump.
Otherwise, you end up staying in the same place your whole life.
And that I can't do.
You're always afraid to take the first step,
because all you see is every negative thing ten miles down the road,
but you can do anything you want.
You are bound by nothing.
You love this game.
I mean, love it with your whole heart.
Because if you don't,
let's not even bother.
Let's not open that door.
They're just gonna slam it right in our face.
I love this game.
I live this game.
And there's a thousand other guys
waiting in the wings who are obsessed with this game.
Obsession is gonna be talent every time.
You got all the talent in the world,
but are you obsessed?
Is it all you ever think about?
Let's face it, it's you against you out there.
When you walk on that court,
you have to think, I am the best guy out there.
I'm gonna have setbacks, I know.
But if I'm feeling bad, that doesn't mean I'm doing bad.
That doesn't mean I am bad.
That doesn't mean that I can't still take some action.
Because yeah, nothing changes, and nothing changes, man.
Everything around you that you call life
was made up by people that were no smarter than you.
And you can change it.
You can influence it. You can mold it.
And you had that third failure in a row.
Did you think, I need to pack this in?
Never.
Why not?
I don't ever give up.
I always felt like I could do anything.
That's the main thing people are controlled by.
Thoughts, their perception of themselves.
They're slowed down by their perception of themselves.
If you're taught you can't do anything, you won't do anything.
I was taught I could do everything.
To all of you watching here, come close to the screen and listen.
People don't have to like you.
People don't have to love you.
They don't even have to respect you.
But when you look in the mirror, you better love what you see.
You better love what you see.
Thank you to the critics. Thank you!
Sometimes life can really hijack your mind.
When that happens to you, you're all fucked up.
Your goals, your ambitions, everything is out the window.
In life we all go through different things.
Sometimes your girlfriend or boyfriend breaks up with you.
Guess what? Get the fuck over it.
They no longer want you.
Maybe you fell a test in school.
You worked your ass off. Guess what?
You fell the test. Get over it. Move past it.
Learn to not let life hijack your brain.
At work, you've been working your ass off that new promotion.
You don't get it. Someone else does.
It's better than you do. Guess what?
Get over it. Life will hijack your mind if you let it.
Don't allow all these things to make you a lesser person.
You must own your mind. Don't let life own yours.
It's time to stay focused.
It's time to decide, clubs, party,
and trying to fit in and socialize.
Rub elbows with everybody so people can stop calling you weird.
Why are you so anti-social?
Because I'm trying to get it.
Why are you staying on the basketball court so much?
Because I'm trying to get it.
Why are you out there practicing in the hot sun when there ain't nobody else out there?
Because I'm trying to get it.
Why are you not clubbing?
Like every time I text you and invite you to go do some fun and cool,
you always studying because I'm trying to get it.
Why would you not go for it?
Why would you not take a chance?
At one point in time, you got to take a chance on you.
To get something you never had, you have to do something you never did.
Les Brown's a motivational speaker. He made an analogy about this.
He says, imagine you're on your deathbed and standing around your deathbed are the ghosts
representing your unfulfilled potential.
The ghost of the ideas you never acted on, the ghost of the talents you didn't use,
and they're standing around your bed angry, disappointed and upset.
They say, we came to you because you could have brought us to life, they say.
And now we have to go to the grave together.
So I ask you today, how many ghosts are going to be around your bed when your time comes?
I ask the question, why not you?
And now here's my last question.
My very last question on the questions to ponder is why not now?
There never was a better time.
Take this dream and not let it die.
Take this dream and give it life.
Take this dream and breathe into it, your own personal spirit.
Until finally, it becomes a flame that burns around the whole world.
Let's go do it now.
You eventually you are going to have to jump.
You cannot just exist in this life.
You have got to try to live.
If you are waking up thinking that it's got to be more to your life than it is,
man believed that it is.
But to get to that life, you're going to have to jump.
It's not a bad thing to be unique.
It's not a bad thing to be different.
It's not a bad thing to be comfortable with yourself,
regardless of what everybody else around you is doing.
If you want to be great, you want to be bad as my mother ever at what you do,
you're going to be misunderstood by everybody because you're going to be so obsessed and so driven to get there.
That's what it takes.
When you are misunderstood to the point where people think you're psycho and you're nuts and you're this and that,
why are you in the gym at one o'clock in the morning?
What's wrong?
You would never understand what is wrong with me.
There's a certain delusional quality that all successful people have to have.
You have to believe that something different can happen.
You're crazy until you're successful than you're a genius.
For a lot of people when you're grinding as a small channel,
people think you're too obsessed, you're weirdo, stop only making videos,
get a life, be realistic.
People will convince you you're out of your mind for wanting to do this,
but then once you're successful, they're like,
yo, you're drive, you're tenacity, it's great, but it's like,
yeah, where was that back then?
I didn't get that when I was a small channel.
It's only delusional until it works.
So is it really delusional?
And then once the world sees it, there's nothing delusional about it.
Now your delusion becomes, oh, he was a genius.
You must try things that may not work,
and you must not let anyone define your limits because of where you come from.
Your only limit is your soul.
What I say is true, anyone can cook, but only the fearless can be great.
I always felt like I could do anything.
That's the main thing people are controlled by.
That's their perception of themselves.
They're slowed down by their perception of themselves.
If you're taught you can't do anything, you won't do anything.
I was taught I could do everything.
You will believe in yourself.
Reminder that if you want to be exceptional,
you're going to be different from everyone else.
That's what makes you exceptional.
You can't fit in and also be exceptional.
Both have discomfort.
When you fit in, you have internal conflict because you're not being 100% you.
When you're exceptional, you have external conflict
because everyone sees you as different.
Pick one.
When your friends start to say, you've changed.
Remember, it's because they don't know how to say, you've grown.
If you're going to try, go all the way.
Otherwise, don't even start.
If you're going to try, go all the way.
This can mean losing girlfriends, wives, relatives, jobs, and maybe your mind.
Go all the way.
There's no other feeling like that.
You'll be alone with the gods, and the knights will flame with fire.
All the way.
The fear is never reaching your potential.
That's it.
That always falling short, always quitting before you're done, always procrastinating,
always not doing the right thing, and then one day you're an old man.
Yep.
And you look back and go, God, I could have been great.
Yep.
I could have been great.
That's not normal.
We don't want to be normal.
Normality is what weak people call living.
I call it death.
But where do you go to?
You wake up on a morning.
It's cold.
It's wet.
It's dark.
You've got no cartilage in your knee.
You've got e-shirts, whatever it is that's the issue today.
Keep talking.
You've got these problems, right?
I need you to keep talking about what you were just saying.
It's warm on the couch.
Your Mrs. says stay in bed.
That's it.
It's comfy.
It's cozy.
You've got work later on.
You had an argument last night.
You're slightly hungover.
God, I know every f***er ain't going to do what I'm going to do.
Be the now what you want to be later.
It starts right now.
If you're not doing the now, don't ever expect a later to be the person you want to look
in the mirror.
Everyone's like, oh, later in life, I want to do this.
Later in life, I want to do that.
Later in life is turning around, looking in the mirror right now.
That's the later in life.
And unless that turn around is something in progression, later in life, ain't going to
be anything different.
Belief may turn around.
You're going to see something.
Put a smile on your face.
It's going to make you turn around.
