"We can stay here, get the shit kicked out of us,
or we can fight our way back into the light.
We can climb out of hell, one inch at a time."
"You are responsible for your life.
And if you're sitting around waiting on somebody to save you,
to fix you, to even help you,
you are wasting your time
because only you have the power to take responsibility to move your life forward."
"What matters is now, this moment, and your willingness to see this moment
for what it is, accept it, forgive the past, take responsibility, and move forward."
"I came to realize that all the time I was praying to God,
asking for God to do something.
God was waiting on me."
"How many times do you have to hear,
if nothing changes, nothing changes?
Right? And yet, somehow we expect things to change."
"You're always afraid to take the first step
because all you see is every negative thing ten miles down the road,
but you can do anything you want.
You are bound by nothing."
"The time come for you to be your own man
and take on the world, and you did.
But somewhere along the line, you changed.
You stopped being you.
You let people stick a finger in your face and tell you you're no good.
And when things got hard, you started looking for something to blame,
like a big shadow."
"I'm gonna have setbacks, I know.
But if I'm feeling bad, that doesn't mean I'm doing bad.
That doesn't mean I am bad.
That doesn't mean that I can't still take some action."
"Because yeah, nothing changes and nothing changes, man."
"Because if you're thinking, then you're not taking action.
And if you're not taking action, then there's no consequence.
And if there's no consequence, then there's nothing to be afraid of."
"The overthinking can be an excuse for actual fear.
It doesn't matter whether I achieve all of my goals
or I don't achieve all of the goals."
"In three generations, I'll be forgotten,
and the only people who were nacing against me will also be dead.
And so then it's like, just do it for me."
"You know, we'll sit around forever wondering,
well, what if I was a dog catcher?
Would I be the best? What if I was a, you know..."
"We expect things to change.
You think you're gonna get in better shape.
You think you're gonna get more money.
You think your relationship is gonna improve.
You think you're gonna get promoted.
You think you're gonna get a raise.
You think the world is going to get better.
Without you doing anything.
But it isn't."
"Nothing is going to change unless you change what you're doing.
Change the time that you wake up.
Change what you do when you get out of bed.
That's what you need to do.
You have to change some things,
or nothing will change.
So make changes.
And start little.
Get up a little bit earlier.
Get a workout done.
That's what you need to do."
"A positive place that you draw mental strength from when life is difficult
has to be,
I just want to be better and I'm trying my best.
That's all that there is."
"You want to be better. That is something to be proud of.
You want to leave it all on the field of play.
You want to make yourself as good as you can.
You want to make the world a better place.
You want to have an impact.
All of these things are just all positives."
"What really breaks my heart is how stuck people are.
And that there are things you can do
to change your life for the better."
"If you don't have hope
and you don't have this breakthrough
where you have for just a millisecond
this insight where you go,
well, what if things did work out?
If you don't have that moment,
most people stay so stuck in resignation."
"If you are trying to battle the same boss over and over again,
don't change what you're doing
and the boss keeps beating you,
then it's not the game's problem.
It's your problem. You are the problem."
"I was not always this strong guy, you see.
I went through a lot of hard times in my life
to get here today.
And a story I'll tell you with real quick.
I tried once to get in the Air Force
to be an Air Force pair of rescuers.
And I quit for fear of the water.
I was 175 pounds.
I left the Air Force four years later at 300 pounds.
I went from 175 to 300 pounds.
There's a long story in there on how that came to be."
"You're going to lose sleep.
You'll doubt whether it'll work.
You'll stress to make ends meet.
You won't finish your to-do list.
You'll wonder whether you made the right call
and have no way to know for years.
This is what hard feels like, and that's okay.
Everything worth doing is hard.
And the more worth doing it is, the harder it is.
The greater the payoff, the greater the hardship."
"If it's hard, good.
It means no one else will do it.
More for you."
"Why pay the price?
Why work this hard?
Why go this far?
Why try to learn this much?
Why try to do it all?
Why try to see it all?
Why try to have it all?
Why do it?
Why learn it?
Why study?
Why put yourself out?
Why try to take on this much responsibility?
Why develop yourself to the full?
Why try to become all that you can possibly become?"
"So I define learning by same condition, new behavior.
And so when you go to a video game and you battle through the level
and you battle the boss, if you keep doing the same thing to the boss
and you keep losing, then you have not learned
because you have the same condition and the same behavior.
And so I often say that like for anyone who's listening to this podcast,
if the goal is to get better and you're like,
man, I really want to learn something from this podcast.
If you listen to this podcast and then you're in the same exact conditions
as you were before, and then you do not change your behavior,
you learned nothing.
And so using that definition has at least allowed me to change my behavior faster,
which then goes into rate of learning, which I define as intelligence.
And so a lot of people are like, man, he's so smart, but he just doesn't.
It's like, well, then if he doesn't change his behavior
and he's in the same conditions, he's not that smart."
"The more that you're able to let go and not fear about stuff,
the more enjoyable you'll find it."
"So the thing that is making you better is the thing which is making you feel pain.
And this is a perennial balance."
"What would have had to have happened in a week
for you to look back on that week with pride?"
"Maybe stop breaking promises to yourself.
When you say, I'm going to wake up tomorrow at 7 a.m.
and when the option comes to hit the snooze button, don't do it.
There's one win that you've got for the day.
That's action."
"The path of the exceptional person is one of an exception,
which means that you are not with other people.
And rather than fighting that or bemoaning it,
see it as an indicator that you're on the right path
because if everyone else were cheering you on,
then it means you're not in the right place
because it means you're just like everyone else
and that's not where you want to be."
"When you were born, you are a phenomenon.
You are unique.
Your DNA has never occurred in the history of the universe.
Going back billions of years, it will never occur in the future.
Your life experiences with your parents
and everything that you experience in your early years going on up
is your unique, it's yours.
You are one of a kind, right?
So that is your source of power.
To waste that is just the worst thing you can do in your life.
And what the power is, is finding that uniqueness.
What makes you you and how you can mine that,
how you can go deep into it and use that to create a career path."
"If you can see it here and you have the courage enough to speak it,
it will happen."
"You cannot change your life unless you change something."
"If you always do what you always did,
you'll always get what you always got."
"You will fail at some point in your life,
except if you will lose, you will embarrass yourself,
you will suck at something."
"You can't wait for everything to be perfect
to start living your life.
Because that's what I've done.
My whole life has been like that.
Inside of me it has been, as soon as it's all lined up,
I'm going to show you myself.
As soon as I've got it all looking the way I want,
I'm going to show up for you.
I'm never going to get to that where everything's okay,
where everything looks a certain way.
And in the meantime, I'm burning the best time I do have available.
I'm burning that candle up.
I'm burning this candle down,
and I'm saying as soon as it gets bright enough,
or warm enough in here,
I'm going to show up,
but the candle's getting smaller."
