After whatever the is in front of them, man, I like to picture God looking down and saying yeah, but
That boy just won't quit
He just watching you'll get back up and you'll get up swinging and he'll try again. He just don't quit
Get off your butt
Get out of those stands
Get in the arena get dirty
Get bloody get not damn
Back up get knocked down again
Get back up
And when people
Point at you and laugh at your failure say yeah, I'm in the arena with a sword in my hand
And you're setting up an understanding with a biscuit in yours
Who's more proud
One time in my life I felt that what was my purpose
And sometimes you graduate out of high school you look for that job you look for that career
College the degree you still question is this my purpose?
I want to talk to you about the center your center
Your purpose
One question that I
Always ask myself even I've always asked myself yes your purpose. What's your purpose for living?
Do you know your purpose?
What you're created to do?
Do you know what that is?
A lot of people live their entire lives
Not knowing
Tire lifetime not being happy
Because they feel as though they're not fulfilling their purpose you see that man right there so
Like for instance, let's say you have no races. Let's say you have no classes. No nothing you have
There's no purpose in your life, you know people need to have purpose to get up. They need purpose to perform
You need to get to a point in your life
Where there's nothing on the docket?
There's no 5k. There's no
There's no I'm gonna get into school to be this or that and still perform
To the highest level because what people don't get is one day that things gonna come up
And if you're not constantly performing without purpose
You're not gonna be ready when the time comes
We've been around for three and a half billion years, you know every single one of your relatives
Propagated successfully and here you are against all possible odds in this in this world of hell in some sense and and and
bitterness and and and
tyranny and malevolence and yet God only knows what's inside you this capacity for consciousness the capacity to
Confront potential and to turn it into something good. That's us man. That's the Western story
That's the individual as the cornerstone of the state
That's our responsibility and it really is who we are
And so we need to know that and we need to remember it and we need to act it out
And then maybe we can see what we can do about it, you know
And see how good we could make things and maybe that would be the purpose of your damn life, right?
Not to be happy. It's like there's problems to be solved be happy after you solve the goddamn things, right?
It's this magical thing purpose that we're all looking for
But what's funny about it all is that we need these things to perform
But we don't take a second to realize
The purpose is always there
The purpose never leaves us
Because the very purpose is you
You are always the purpose. There may be another purpose like being a seal or going to college or whatever
But the main purpose in life is you
So if you wake up in the morning and you don't want to do something
You don't care enough about yourself
If that's what you need to really research is man
Why am I not doing this for myself because that is that is the number one purpose in life
Is to better oneself
So that's the only purpose I need so the reason I get up every day, you know, there's no racers
There's no school. There's nothing in front of me
It's because I have pride in myself
And it would be so good if we could people wonder well, what's the meaning of life like what's it all about?
What's what justifies the suffering and the misery and all of that it's like well, that's what justifies it
It's like you put yourself up against that you think okay all with all of this pushing against me
How much can I push back?
Could I move the horror an inch back with with all the strength that I have at my disposal man and answer to that is
Yeah, you can't it it makes you better
With regards to yourself, but it also makes the world a better place and so well, so you know more of that
I
Easy to give up
Yeah, it's easy. It's easiest thing in the world to do. I'm done. I ain't going. Oh, yeah, I ain't gonna keep going
Yeah, I don't feel like going to work. Yeah, man. It's easy. It's very easy
But what's hard is going yo yesterday? I got nothing from working as hard as I could
Nothing happened from that. I'm gonna do the same thing again today, but I'm gonna try to go harder
That's the hardest thing in the world to get up every day and give a hundred percent and
And be in the same position that you were each day
But mentally know that you're trying and trying and trying that's that's a real that's a real grind
We don't want to suffer. We don't want to feel discomfort
So the whole time we're living our lives in a very comfortable area. There's no growth in that
So for me I realized that the reason I became 297 pounds is because that was comfortable
What was very uncomfortable was running was very uncomfortable was being on a diet
Was very uncomfortable was trying to face things that I didn't want to face
And I also realized when I was really big I had no growth
Why because I was living comfortable
So I realized for me to find growth
I had to face all these different things that made me very very uncomfortable
One thing I faced was running. I
Absolutely hated running, but I knew for me to grow. I
Wanted I had to do this thing every single day. I wanted to start callous in my mind
I wanted to start becoming a better person and how you become a better person
How you gain mental toughness how you become the person you want to be is
Constantly facing the things that you don't want to face
If you constantly run away from things that you don't want to face how is their growth?
How is their mental toughness? I can give you a class all day long about
self-talk
Visualization eat an elephant one by that time, but if you're never putting yourself in a situation to actually practice these things
You're never going to grow. I can't put you out there in a we're all going through a battle in our mind a
Warrior is not a person that carries a gun
The biggest war you're ever going through is wiped between your own ears
It's in your mind
We're all going through a war in our mind and we have to callous our mind to fight that war and to win that war
You know the one that you have to really fight is the war against yourself
You have to fight the war against yourself
There is not easy to look in the mirror and to change your own life. It's hard as hell
You have to take responsibility. You have to learn new things. You have to feel uncomfortable
Good because discomfort is how we grow. That's how we become strong
If you run away from discomfort and resistance your whole life, you will always be weak
Just think about the gym friends. That's why I learned most of my lessons, right?
The muscles only grows from resistance. You have to struggle. You have to build strength
The more I force my hands against the steel bar the bigger the biceps getting the stronger they get
And I was trying to squat 600 pounds and bench press 500 pounds and deadlift 700
It didn't feel like a walk in a park. It wasn't easy. No, I was uncomfortable
It was painful. I mean look at those photos. I was struggling. I was crying out loud in pain. I
Don't want you to be loser. I don't want you to be weak
See I've spent most of my life helping people find their strength
This is where the action is strength
And despite all of the things that we may disagree about and all my friends who might say Arnold
Don't talk to those people. It's not worth it. I
Get what they say. I care about you. I think you're worth it
Sometimes you need to get knocked down before you can really figure out what your what your fight is
And how you need to fight it
Sometimes you need to feel the pain and sting of defeat to activate the real passion
