Ordinary people but if you are sitting in this room, and you have extraordinary aspirations, then you have to do extra
You put extra on top ordinary, and you come up with extraordinary
It's no other way you have to decide if you are willing to do the things to put you in that category
Rich people don't sleep eight hours a day
That's a third of your life. It ain't for 24 hours in a day
You cannot be sleep eight hours a day you can't live in LA and wake up at eight o'clock in the morning
It's eleven o'clock on the East Coast the stock market been open two hours
They already making decisions about your life, and yours was sleep be the guy who embraces
the ugly the miserable
Be the guy who embraces
Hard work the grind don't be afraid of being hurt. Don't be afraid of a second price of some blood
People don't get it. There's there's great joy in the grind great joy in the suffer
It's totally cleanses your body out man if any kind of hate makes you grow up, and I realize that life isn't fair
It's not fair and you better figure out some tools in some ways to stop them
Sorry for yourself because no one is coming to rescue you no one feels sorry for you
There's so much opportunity on the other side of being willing to persist
For an extended period of time on the correct path without getting positive reinforcement from your environment
And the longer you can stick with something without that positive feedback loop in terms of the big external thing
The them the easier the opportunities are because so few people can pursue them difficult things
Make regular life less difficult and that sounds so simplistic
But particularly physically difficult things because when you do things that are physically difficult the strain of
Making yourself do those things. It's very valuable
It's not just valuable like exercise and fitness and martial arts and running and whatever you're doing
That's really difficult. It's not just valuable in terms of like health and the way you look, but it's also valuable for your mind
Son don't stop for nobody man
Son don't stop son gonna be up in the morning regardless
That son is gonna be up in the morning regardless of how I feel and how depressed I am the son
Is gonna shine in the morning and a night time the moon gonna be there and you gonna look up these days gonna keep going by
So do you let the days go by and look up and you don't waste of the year doing what?
What do you just pick it up?
Got to figure it out made some mistakes. That's life goes on
We figure out life from this point you want to become best you want to become champion and now you want to say like you tired
Who cares you tired or not? Nobody care about he was tired
You have personal problem family
We're all writing a book
What's your book look like?
What is your fucking book look like like your life is a book you got a bunch of chapters in your book
But when they close that book
How good was the book
How good was your book? What was the ending to your book?
Yeah, what was really your work ethic like and for how long did you stay disciplined?
Well, I mean
I mean every day I mean since you know for 20 years
It was an everyday process and trying to figure out strengths and weaknesses for example
Jumping ability now my vertical was a 40 wasn't a 46 or 40 45
My hands are big, but they're not massive right? So you got to figure out ways to strengthen them
So your hands are strong enough to be able to palm a ball and do the things that you need to do
Quickness I was quick, but not insanely quick. I was fast, but not ridiculously fast, right? So I had to
Rely on a skill a lot more I had to rely on angles a lot more had to study the game a lot more and it just never changed
What I found is that winning doesn't happen on showday
It happens in the early mornings painful workouts long cardio sessions and hungry nights
Happens in those moments of fear. We all have one face with a difficult goal
And then more so in what you make of that fear
It happens in every second of every day before you win
If you can take every opportunity you have to bring yourself closer to your goal
When every one of those opportunities all while becoming more resilient in the process, how can you lose?
That's an exciting opportunity. I became obsessed
With being the baddest because I got ever created in my back. I don't care
I believe it and I was trying to tell them once you become obsessed with something
Obsessed it's okay to be unbalanced for a while. It's okay
Don't be all this stuff people say you got to be balanced to be the best in the world
At what you do some of being a Navy Seal people the best at what you do
You have to be unbalanced to find every bit of
Energy and strength that you have to pull it off
How bad do you want it?
there's two options to
Continue forward
pushing upward
And if you do that dream is giving birth and forever you will live in the reality of it
If you stop quit throw it out. I
Promise you there's no distance you can travel far enough or find that dream again
for it's dead
And in its death
It's replaced by regret. What's the least amount of sleep you play the game on?
No, there's story where it's like, you know, no one knows about where you went and played a game
And it was so insane for whatever reasons no sleep
You play the game no sleep. You know sleep
You'll sleep. It's like, you know
kids, you know, Natalia had a certain, you know health
Situation would have you and you stand up all night and then
You got to go out and perform because fans don't know
Teammates don't know nor do they care nor should they that you've been up all night
You got to perform like I see a lot of players
Take vacations with other players that are close friends and
We'll just take vacations just to take vacations or just hang out just to hang out like I'm not I never did that
But why not? Why didn't you do that? Well, because when I retire, I didn't want to have to say I
Wish I would have done more
All week you was work hard
End of the week if you don't tired, this is good question
You have to worry about yourself, but this is Saturday. You're sick as day you walk so hard. Of course, you're gonna tired
Tomorrow rest and Monday we're gonna begin one more training
If you don't want to go back to Pakistan and stay with your mom
She's gonna give you every day good breakfast. You don't do nothing. Stay there
But if you come here don't complain you want to become best you want to become champion and now you want to say like you tired
Who cares you tired or not? Nobody care about he was tired. He had personal problem family
Nobody cares. A lot of people live their entire lives
Not fulfilling their purpose
One time in my life. I felt that
What was my purpose?
till you find the center of your being you will continue to walk going through the motions
The one companion that's always going to be with you is
yourself
Yourself is what you have and
You need to encourage yourself you need to look around and you need to be able to say look
I'm not stuck here unless I choose to stay here
If you don't have somebody who's gonna do that become that somebody
What's something difficult you're going through that people don't often see I mean my mind is a storm
I don't think most people would want to be me. They may think that would want to be me, but they don't
They don't know they don't understand
There's 24 hours in a day where you're alone in this brain and your brain is talking to you in all kind of ways
And it wants to control you pulling these different pockets
You got to tell your brain where you want to go and how you want to get there if you can't control your own brain
It's over
Every day when you get out of bed life standing right there to kick you in the face man
Life is gonna throw all kinds of crazy shit and you have to be ready for it
You got to deal with it can't curl up into a ball. You can't run away from it. You can't hide
You have to take all this head on
Great things happen and really bad things happen and you got to take it all in stride
And you got to pick yourself up the next day strap your shoes back on and get out there and go to war again
It's that mentality. It's the mentality bring it on mother. I can take it. You can't break this shit
I'm stronger than you think I am
And everything you throw at me and all the hardships you throw at me
You might knock me down, but I get back up and I'll be stronger for it. It's fattening power
That builds an iconic status said
Centuries from now people still talk about
Nobody cares, you know at the end of the day nobody cares what we're going through how your body feels nobody cares
we got it we got to do our job and
We emphasize that to each other again today, you know, hey, I got your back. You got mine. Nobody cares man
We got to go is it fair? No life is tough sometimes and it's not fair and it doesn't care sometimes
But you're gonna hold true to what you believe and you're gonna hold true to who you are and you're gonna be that person
Whether it's easier or top I
Go to such places in my mind and I studied the darkness
There was no team. It was you
There was no weight loss programmer
Mom and dad waking you up saying you can do it. You can be better trying to build belief you built belief when you had
